All right here's a problem one from a series package.
We have two resistors here are connected in series.
You see it as a four almost six ohm.
They're connected in series to a 12 volt volt battery.
And what they're asking for now a whole bunch of questions related to this problem is battery here is
an ideal battery so there is no internal resistance.
And the first thing I ask you is to find the equivalent resistance of the two resistors.
Well again if both of these are in series over here that means that the equivalent resistor are equivalent
is you simply add them up.
They have the same current flowing through them.
So let's just call this one let's call these are two.
So at the end you simply have four plus six you should simply get 10 ohms.
Pretty straightforward.
Now once you have done this basically what we've done now is we've replaced both of those by a single
10 ohm resistor.
So we still have the same 12 volt battery except now we have our equivalent resistor which is equal
to 10 ohms so applying ohms law to this very simple circuit is really straightforward and that allows
you right away to find what the current in the circuit is.
So if you apply Ohm's law of the circuit you have v equals the R I accept Rs are equivalent in this
case and I is the current everywhere in this branch a single branch.
So the current I now simply going to be equal to V divided by my are equivalent.
V is 12 divided by 10.
So you get 6 over 5 which is equal to 1.2 amps.
So there is problem b.
All right.
Problem see now we're asking you what is the voltage now across each resistor.
So Imagineer I have a point.
A I have a point B and I have a point.
See what they're asking for basically is what is V.A mine is VB.
That will be the voltage across the four ohm resistor and then they're asking what is VB minus mine
VC.
That's the voltage difference.
The potential difference across the six ohm resistor.
So for the first one let's start at point A.
So if you start at point A You're going to be at some potential let's call it vitæ.
And now I'm going to go all the way to point B.
The first thing I'd do is I'm crossing a forum.
They're in the same direction as the current.
If you do that you get a voltage drop and the voltage drop is given by Ohm's law is given by the value
of the resistance multiplied by the current flowing through it.
And now you end up going all the way to point B so that there must be equal to the potential at point
B.
This is not like doing a complete loop.
I'm not doing a complete loop I'm starting at point a terminating at point B.
So in this case here we get V.A.
Mine is VB.
That's basically what I'm looking for that is the voltage difference across my form resists.
There is simply four times the current.
In this case it's four times 1.2.
And that gives me a voltage difference of 4.8 volts.
All right.
How about the next one while we proceed using the same arguments you start now at point B so I'm at
a potential VB.
Now I'm going across a 6 ohm resistor.
It's the same thing minus six multiplied.
I said six and I wrote for a try that again six multiplied by the current.
I then that there has to be equal to the voltage at Point C again and rearranging this expression over
here.
What you end up getting is the B minus VC is simply six times the current AI.
So six times a 1.2 is the current at the end you should get 7.2 volts one thing we should notice also
in addition is if you add both of those 4.8 plus 7.2 So you add them all you end up getting my 12 volts
because it doesn't matter if I started over here a point and I went all the way to point see if I went
across both resistors I should get 12 volts.
If I go this way through the battery and go to point C I should also get 12 volts.
All right.
So that takes care of this one.
I've got the other two taking care of what is now the power delivered to each resistor or in other words
what is the power dissipated in each resistor.
So in order to get the power dissipated let me just split the SEPA a little bit.
OK so for Pardhi the power delivered to each resistor Well we've got the power delivered to the four
ohm resistor.
This is simply the value of the resistance multiplied by the current flowing through it squared.
So in this case here the resistance is forums and the current is the same everywhere it's 1.2.
And don't forget the square that so the power our final expression now the power delivered to the four
ohm resistor ends up being five point seventy six watts.
Same thing for the six same formula except we have a different value of the resistance.
The power dissipated or the power delivered to the six ohm resistor there is six multiplied by the current
flowing through it.
That's one point too.
Don't forget the square of that and the total power dissipated in this resistor here ends up being eight
point six for Watts.
Actually if you add those up you're going to get the total power that's dissipated the total power dissipated.
So five point six plus 8.6 for you add both of those up.
You get fourteen point four watts.
That is the total power dissipated by both of those resistors.
Actually you can check that if you look at it now the power being supplied by the battery
that's simply given by the voltage of the battery multiplied by the current flowing through it.
We get 12.
The currents the same everywhere in this circuit.
That's 1.2.
You multiply those out you're going to get a little behold fourteen point four watts.
So the power being delivered to the circuit by the battery is being dissipated in these resistors.
All right.
Hope you've got that one folks kind of a good warm up problem.
See the next one.